src/content/books/design-of-everyday-things.mdx, before:

---
title: "The Design of Everyday Things"
author: "Donald A. Norman"
rating: 8.4
genre: "Design"
status: "completed"
isFavourite: false
coverImage: "/books/design-of-everyday-things.jpeg"
excerpt: "A foundational text on user-centered design that reveals why so many everyday objects are poorly designed and how to make them better."
dateRead: "2023-08-12"
dateAdded: "2024-01-20"
---

*The Design of Everyday Things* is a seminal work that fundamentally changed how I think about the objects and interfaces I interact with daily. Norman's insights into good and bad design are both eye-opening and practical, making this essential reading for anyone involved in creating anything that people use.

The book's central thesis is that when people have trouble using something, it's usually not their fault - it's a design problem. Norman introduces key concepts like affordances (what actions an object suggests), signifiers (indicators of where action should take place), and mapping (the relationship between controls and their effects) that provide a framework for understanding design.

What I found most valuable was Norman's emphasis on human psychology in design. He explains how people form mental models of how things work and why designs should match these natural thought processes. The discussion of how people handle errors and the importance of making systems forgiving was particularly insightful.

The examples throughout the book are perfect for illustrating Norman's points. From confusing door handles to poorly designed stoves, he shows how bad design creates unnecessary confusion and frustration. The door example (push or pull?) has become so iconic that poorly designed doors are now called "Norman doors."

Norman's six principles of design - visibility, feedback, constraints, mapping, consistency, and affordances - provide a practical checklist that I now find myself applying not just to digital interfaces but to everything around me. These principles are simple to understand but profound in their implications.

The book isn't just critical of bad design; it also celebrates good design and explains why certain objects work so well. The analysis of how scissors naturally indicate their use, or how a well-designed control panel makes complex operations intuitive, helps illustrate what designers should strive for.

While some examples feel dated (the book was originally published in 1988, though updated editions address this), the core principles remain remarkably relevant, especially in our increasingly digital world. The concepts apply just as well to app interfaces as they do to physical objects.

This book has made me a more conscious user and critic of design. I now notice good and bad design choices everywhere, and I have a vocabulary for articulating why something works well or poorly. For anyone working in user experience, product design, or even just curious about why some things are easier to use than others, this book is indispensable.

Commit message:

Manually updated book metadata and reviews

src/content/books/design-of-everyday-things.mdx, after:

---
title: "The Design of Everyday Things"
author: "Donald A. Norman"
rating: 8.1
genre: "Technology"
status: "completed"
isFavourite: false
coverImage: "/books/design-of-everyday-things.jpeg"
dateRead: "2023-08-20"
dateAdded: "2023-08-20"
---

The question “Why are things designed the way they are?” is answered by answering the much more psychological question: “Why do humans do things the way they do?” In _The Design of Everyday Things_, Norman breaks down the actions a user takes into an execution phase and an evaluation phase, and the brain’s processing into the visceral, behavioural, and reflexive levels. The visceral level is the primal part of you that regulates hunger, lust, and fight or flight decisions. The behavioural level is still subconscious, but takes commands from the reflexive brain. If you place your hand flat down on a table and lift one finger at a time, it is your behavioural brain that sends electrical impulses through your body. The behavioural brain has expectations and receives feedback, making it the source of more complex emotions like frustration. The reflexive brain is responsible for conscious cognition. It learns by assigning blame and responsibility, which is why high-level emotions like guilt and pride come from this level.

Norman uses these concepts to clearly articulate the thought process that a human goes through when learning how to use something. First, the user discovers what actions are possible and how to perform them. The problem is, a lot _can_ be done, but very few things _should_ be done. The onus is on designers to provide appropriate signifiers to users so that they don’t choose to execute an unintended action. A product is _intuitive_ if it is clear how to execute an action. Designers of shitty products blame their failures on the stupidity of users—“if only they read the instruction manual!” But unintuitive designs are fallible to human error even from the most meticulous users. One of the things that makes a product intuitive are mappings.

There are many different types of mappings, but the most interesting one is cultural mappings. And the most interesting example of a cultural mapping is the interpretation of the passage of time. In most Western societies, time is static and we are moving forward through it. We also read from left to right, so moving right is analogous to moving forward. Thus when operating a slideshow, clicking the right arrow on the keyboard advances the presentation by one slide. In some other cultures, we are not moving, but instead are experiencing the passage of time like wind blowing in your face. If you imagine this from a side view where you are facing the right, then the time is moving from right to left, and thus it would only make sense to click the left arrow to advance to the next slide. In other cultures, the future is behind us, the past is ahead of us, and we are moving backwards*! I think you get the point. Conventions and standards do not persist across cultures. Instead, they contradict each other. 

My biggest complaint is that the last few chapters were a snooze. I felt there was a lot of repeated information that can be summed up as follows: a problem is usually a symptom of a larger issue. Before brainstorming solutions, first consider what the root cause could be. The most successful products solve problems that people didn’t know they had. To quote Henry Ford, “If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses." 

IRL Update: Having done lots of back-to-school shopping this weekend, I’ve realised that this book has ruined the way I look at everyday things. I spent a good 5 minutes explaining to my parents how this digital alarm clock from Ikea with completely unnatural mappings was terribly designed. They looked at me like I was crazy and we ended up buying it.

Me from the future update (2025-08-17): Increased the rating from mid-7 to low 8. Over my past few co-ops, the insights from this book have been *tremendously* helpful. One thing I've noticed successful engineering managers have in common is always thinking about the user first. It's easy for engineers to lose the forest for the trees thinking about architecture, design patterns, etc. Good design is not all you need, but without it, everything else becomes much less useful. 

*This honestly makes sense. We can see what’s ahead of us (the past), but not what’s behind us (the future). The only reason this idea feels unnatural is that we assume we move “forward” through time, so walking backwards is counterintuitive.
