src/content/books/the-defining-decade.mdx, before:

---
title: "The Defining Decade"
author: "Meg Jay"
rating: 8.1
genre: "Self-Help"
status: "completed"
isFavourite: false
coverImage: "/books/the-defining-decade.jpeg"
excerpt: "A clinical psychologist's insights on why your twenties matter and how to make the most of this crucial decade."
dateRead: "2023-07-08"
dateAdded: "2024-01-20"
---

*The Defining Decade* challenges the popular notion that your twenties are a time for casual exploration and postponing major life decisions. Clinical psychologist Meg Jay argues convincingly that this decade is actually the most crucial time for setting the foundation for your future.

Jay divides the book into three main areas: work, love, and the brain/body. Her approach is grounded in research and clinical experience, making her arguments both compelling and practical. The book is filled with real case studies from her practice, which helps illustrate her points in concrete terms.

The section on work was particularly valuable for me. Jay emphasizes the importance of "identity capital" - the collection of personal assets, skills, and experiences that define who you are. She argues against the "anything goes" mentality and instead advocates for intentional choices that build toward your goals, even if you're not entirely sure what those goals are yet.

Her discussion of relationships was equally insightful. Jay challenges the idea that you should "play the field" indefinitely and instead argues for the importance of choosing partners more intentionally. The concept of "cohabitation effect" and how living together without clear intention can lead to "sliding" into marriage rather than "deciding" was eye-opening.

What I appreciated most about this book is that Jay doesn't dismiss the very real uncertainties and anxieties that come with being in your twenties. Instead, she acknowledges them while providing practical advice for moving forward despite them. Her message isn't about having everything figured out, but about being intentional with your choices.

The writing is accessible and engaging, avoiding the preachy tone that many self-help books fall into. Jay presents her arguments with empathy and understanding, making even difficult truths easier to digest.

While some of the advice might feel pressure-inducing, I found it ultimately empowering. The book gave me permission to take my twenties seriously and to make decisions with purpose rather than just drifting along. It's a valuable read for anyone in their twenties or anyone working with young adults.

Commit message:

Manually updated book metadata and reviews

src/content/books/the-defining-decade.mdx, after:

---
title: "The Defining Decade"
author: "Meg Jay"
rating: 6.1
genre: "Self-Help"
status: "completed"
isFavourite: false
coverImage: "/books/the-defining-decade.jpeg"
excerpt: "A clinical psychologist's insights on why your twenties matter and how to make the most of this crucial decade."
dateRead: "2024-07-20"
dateAdded: "2024-09-16"
---

I was saving this book to be one of the first ones that I read after I turned 20 as a symbolic thing. Unfortunately, I was quite disappointed. The thesis presented by Jay is that the idea that “your 20s are made for enjoying because you’ll only be young once” is a dangerous one to blindly subscribe to. I already 100% agree.

As a therapist, Jay tells the stories of numerous millennials in their 20s and 30s who she’s had as patients. The common theme in all these cases is that they understood that your 20s should be a time for exploring, but they didn’t understand that exploring doesn’t mean fucking around. 

In the context of work, it means not settling for underemployment and instead taking jobs that build “identity capital” (skill sets that make you unique - you don’t get that from settling with a low-level service job).

In the context of love, it means thinking about the compatibility between your own values, your partners values, and the values of your potential in-laws, rather than focusing on superficial things like commonalities and sexual attractiveness (and for women, being aware of the decline in fertility that comes with aging).

In the context of your mind, it means building real confidence using the results you reaped by taking action and building character by taking on more responsibility. 

Throughout the book, Jay seems to present herself as the knight in shining armour for the disparaged youth that step in her door, which I was not a fan of. I’m sure Jay is a great therapist, and in fairness, I don’t think I am the target audience of this book. In fact, I think I have the opposite problem in that I take things much too seriously. Putting that aside, it’s already been 3 months since I’ve finished this book and I have yet to notice it affect my values, opinions, or decisions at all, which ‘good’ books tend to do. 

IRL Update: Wow it’s been a quarter of a year since the last review… I’ve been reading, just not writing as much. In the past 3 months I finished the second half of my 2B term, flew to Porto, Portugal to walk the Camino de Santiago for 2 weeks, and began my third co-op term returning to the firm I was with from January to April of this year. More book reviews coming soon 😄.
